Fantastic, the lance gets started here
with establishing our base styling.
One of the things you'll see me
do a lot in this course is that,
in the JavaScript box here I will
sometimes put in instructions for you.
I'm not using the JavaScriipt box
otherwise, it's always just to
comment there to about what might be
going in this particular CodePen.
So if you wanna take a look at it,
you are welcome to do that.
For now, what we're going to do
is we're going to start here, and
let's just take a look at
what we've got in place.
So here in our HTML, the first
thing to know about CodePen is that
it does not sure you you're
the HTML head of our document, and
it also does not show us
the body element either.
Those are pretty
fundamental to a web page,
this is everything that's
inside of that body element.
And I'll show you later on
today how to take this HTML and
put it into a web page where that body
element and the head are present.
So just be aware, if it looks a little
weird, that's why it looks weird.
So we have a series of div elements here.
Those div elements each have their
own class associated with them, and
we are gonna turn these
into some boxes for colors.
So that is one of the things
we're gonna code.
Next, we have some type, you'll see here
we have our various headings elements.
The heading elements are really important
to use in your document, the one of the so
called semantic elements,
that communicate meaning, particularly for
accessibility purposes.
And show you sort of the broad
overall structure of the page.
We also have a link, we have a list, and
we have one of my favorite HTML items,
which is the figure.
Figures are designed to
associate images with captions.
So if you have text that goes under
a picture, chances are it winds up being
a figure, and this is how you
would go about coding that.
So it's always good to take
a quick peek at your HTML and
get Familiar with what you see there.
Then we're gonna take a look at
the CSS that I've given you here.
So the first part of this
is a little preamble,
this is setting us up for the appropriate
kind of box model that we're
gonna use in this particular document,
so-called border box.
This has to do with making layouts easier,
and
that's pretty much all I'm going to
say about this at that point in time.
If you wanna know more about this,
you can look at the Frontmasters Boot
Camp, where I explain this in more detail.
And I've also included a little
style here courtesy of Scott O'Hara,
ahe's got a blog post on this.
This is a lovely way to make
things hidden for screen readers.
So if you want something, some text
you wanna show up on the page, but
you don't want it visible to most
of the visitors for your website,
you just want it read by a screen reader.
This is a lovely way of doing that,
that's really inclusively done and
you just add that as our only class
into your HTML to make that happen.
So let's start by setting up
the colors for our webpage.
Inside of the class website,
you'll see that I've given
you a series of colors here.
Those of course are hex values that
we're going to use for those colors.
They are what our designer has picked out
for us to use in this particular design.
So one of the first things that we always
do is we start by setting these up
as CSS variables, or the more appropriate
name is CSS custom properties.
And the way that we do that, and
I usually put mine right up here
at the very start of the web page,
we're gonna give this a selector called
root, R-O-O-T with a colon in front of it.
What does root mean?
>> The one location that
everything connects to.
>> The one location, it's the root,
the very base of the document, right?
Everything is derived from
this base of the document.
And by setting up our custom properties or
variables here,
we make them globally available
everywhere in the document.
And when it comes to colors and fonts,
that is absolutely what you wanna do.
So, we will start by giving these names,
and
we can debate how you name
your particular variables.
In a lot of cases people advocate
calling them like primary color and
secondary color and all the rest of that.
Because what happens if one day
you go from blue to purple, and
you now have a variable called blue,
which has a value of purple.
[LAUGH] So that might be
something you wanna think about.
But to keep things simple, I am going to
call my variables by the color names.
You set up a variable by putting
a double dash in front of it, and
then we're gonna give it a name,
like black with a colon after it,
and then we give it our value 000501 and
a semicolon at the end, okay?
Absolutely nothing is gonna change on your
webpage, don't panic it's totally fine.
And that is, we're just setting
up these variables right now,
we haven't actually set
them up to display, okay?
I'll show you how to do white.
So I'm gonna call this one white and
this one is ff,ff If that's, okay?
All right, we've got four more to go here,
take two minutes and
type in all the rest of those
there into your root declaration.
Okay, It looks like the typing has
died down in the room in front of me.
So, hopefully you have a series of
variables that are set up like this.
Remember that variables just
like everything else in code,
do not like spaces,
do not like funny characters.
So when you come to
a name like light green,
you want to make it all one word,
lightgreen.